
### Understanding the ESP8266

**Wifi Direct**, previously known as Wifi P2P, is a Wifi standard to enable devices to connect with each other without requiring a [wireless access point](AP).

### <a name="AP"></a> Wireless Access Point:
An access point is device that allows devices to connect to a wired network.

### The 802.11 protocol standard
While reading about wireless technologies or ordering routers/adapters, I always came across terms like 802.11b, 802.11g, 802.11n, 802.11ac standards. On a bit of googling around, this is what I learned. 
802.11 is a standard for wireless communication. The above 3 mentioned standards are in order of their acceptance in devices. 802.11ac is newer/better than 802.11n is newer/better than 802.11g is newer/better than 802.11b. Some more information:
- 802.11**b** is unregulated. Hence, interferes with home appliances which use the same 2.4GHz range.
- 802.11**a** is regulated, and operated in 5GHz range. Because of the higher frequency, it has a shorter range, and more difficulty penetrating walls. But higher speeds of 54 Mbps. 
- 802.11**a** and 802.11**b** are incompatible with each other.
- 802.11**g** combines the best of **a** and **b**. 802.11**g** is backward compatible with **b**
- 802.11**n** is an improvement over **g**. **n** is backward compatible with **b/g**
- 802.11**ac** is the newest standard. Improvement on **g**. Backward compatible with **b/g/n**. Higher speeds upto 1300 Mbps on 5GHz.

### Integrating ESP8266 with Blee
Wifi devices are generally power hungry. But Blee as a device requires Wifi activity only sporadically. There is no need to keep ESP8266 in active mode for the entire duration of operation. ESP8266 can be programmed to stay in the low power standby mode until on the occurrence of a particular event, which indicates Wifi requirement. 

The range in an open environment for the ESP8266 is around 400meters. Blee as a device will never need anything more than a maximum of 100 meters in range. Programming ESP8266 to work for lower ranges will save power.  

### References
[ESP8266](http://wiki.iteadstudio.com/ESP8266_Serial_WIFI_Module)
[ESP8266 - Arduino](https://github.com/itead/ITEADLIB_Arduino_WeeESP8266)
[ESP8266 Specifications](http://wiki.iteadstudio.com/images/e/e0/ESP8266_Specifications_English.pdf)
[Wifi Direct](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wi-Fi_Direct)
[Wireless Standards](http://compnetworking.about.com/cs/wireless80211/a/aa80211standard.htm) 

